


Components are declared, Modules are imported, and Services are provided. An example I'm working with:



`imports` makes the exported declarations of other modules available in the current module
declarations are to make directives (including components and pipes) from the current module available to other directives in the current module. Selectors of directives, components or pipes are only matched against the HTML if they are declared or imported.

`providers` are to make services and values known to DI (dependency injection). They are added to the root scope and they are injected to other services or directives that have them as dependency.


A special case for providers are lazy loaded modules that get their own child injector. providers of a lazy loaded module are only provided to this lazy loaded module by default (not the whole application as it is with other modules).

For more details about modules see also https://angular.io/docs/ts/latest/guide/ngmodule.html

exports makes the components, directives, and pipes available in modules that add this module to imports. exports can also be used to re-export modules such as CommonModule and FormsModule, which is often done in shared modules.

entryComponents registers components for offline compilation so that they can be used with ViewContainerRef.createComponent(). Components used in router configurations are added implicitly.


TypeScript (ES2015) imports

import ... from 'foo/bar' (which may resolve to an index.ts) are for TypeScript imports. You need these whenever you use an identifier in a typescript file that is declared in another typescript file.

Angular's @NgModule() imports and TypeScript import are entirely different concepts.


Adding a quick cheat sheet that may help after the long break with Angular:

DECLARATIONS
Example:

declarations: [AppComponent]

What can we inject here? Components, pipes, directives

IMPORTS
Example:

imports: [BrowserModule, AppRoutingModule]

What can we inject here? other modules

PROVIDERS
Example:

providers: [UserService]

What can we inject here? services

BOOTSTRAP
Example:

bootstrap: [AppComponent]

What can we inject here? the main component that will be generated by this module (top parent node for a component tree)

ENTRY COMPONENTS
Example:

entryComponents: [PopupComponent]

What can we inject here? dynamically generated components (for instance by using ViewContainerRef.createComponent())

EXPORT
Example:

export: [TextDirective, PopupComponent, BrowserModule]

What can we inject here? components, directives, modules or pipes that we would like to have access to them in another module (after importing this module)

Reference
https://stackoverflow.com/questions/39062930/what-is-the-difference-between-declarations-providers-and-import-in-ngmodule?rq=1
